DOCS-3120 APM docs restructure (#14417)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_collection/dd_libraries/java.md

- Step-by-step instructions scoped to your deployment configuration (hosts, Docker, Kubernetes, or Amazon ECS).
- Dynamically set `service`, `env` and `version` tags.
- Enable the Continuous Profiler, ingesting 100% of traces, and Trace ID injection into logs during setup.

### Java installation

Otherwise, to begin tracing your applications:

1. Download `dd-java-agent.jar` that contains the latest Agent class files:

   ```shell
   wget -O dd-java-agent.jar https://dtdg.co/latest-java-tracer
   ```
   To access a specific version of the tracer, visit Datadog's [Maven repository][4].

2. To run your app from an IDE, Maven or Gradle application script, or `java -jar` command, with continuous profiler, deployment tracking, logs injection (if you are sending logs to Datadog), and trace volume control, add the `-javaagent` JVM argument and the following configuration options, as applicable:

    ```text
    java -javaagent:/path/to/dd-java-agent.jar -Ddd.profiling.enabled=true -XX:FlightRecorderOptions=stackdepth=256 -Ddd.logs.injection=true -Ddd.trace.sample.rate=1 -Ddd.service=my-app -Ddd.env=staging -jar path/to/your/app.jar -Ddd.version=1.0
    ```

>     **Note:** Enabling profiling may have an impact on your bill depending on your APM bundle. See the [pricing page][5] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note:** Enabling profiling may impact your bill depending on your APM bundle. See the [pricing page][5] for more information.
```

| `DD_SERVICE`   | `dd.service`     | The name of a set of processes that do the same job. Used for grouping stats for your application. |
| `DD_VERSION` | `dd.version` |  Your application version (for example, `2.5`, `202003181415`, `1.3-alpha`, etc.) |
| `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED`      | `dd.profiling.enabled`          | Enable the [Continous Profiler][6] |
| `DD_LOGS_INJECTION`   | `dd.logs.injection`     | Enable automatic MDC key injection for Datadog trace and span IDs. See [Advanced Usage][7] for details. |
| `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` | `dd.trace.sample.rate` |   Set a sampling rate at the root of the trace for all services.     |
| `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_SERVICE_RULES` | `dd.trace.sampling.service.rules` |   Set a sampling rate at the root of the trace for services that match the specified rule.    |

Additional [configuration options](#configuration) are described below.

3. Ensure the Datadog Agent is configured for APM and reachable from your application from the environment specific instructions [below](#configure-the-datadog-agent-for-apm).

### Configure the Datadog Agent for APM

> Install and configure the Datadog Agent to receive traces from your instrumented application. By default the Datadog Agent is enabled in your `datadog.yaml` file under `apm_config` with `enabled: true` and listens for trace data at `http://localhost:8126`. For containerized environments, follow the links below to enable trace collection within the Datadog Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install and configure the Datadog Agent to receive traces from your instrumented application. By default, the Datadog Agent is enabled in your `datadog.yaml` file under `apm_config` with `enabled: true` and listens for trace data at `http://localhost:8126`. For containerized environments, follow the links below to enable trace collection within the Datadog Agent.
```

For more details, see the [JBoss documentation][1].

[1]: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_jboss_enterprise_application_platform/7.0/html/configuration_guide/configuring_jvm_settings
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Jetty" %}}

If you use `jetty.sh` to start Jetty as a service, edit it to add:

```text
JAVA_OPTIONS="${JAVA_OPTIONS} -javaagent:/path/to/dd-java-agent.jar"
```

If you use `start.ini` to start Jetty, add the following line (under `--exec`, or add `--exec` line if it isn't there yet):

```text
-javaagent:/path/to/dd-java-agent.jar
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "WebSphere" %}}

In the administrative console:

1. Select **Servers**. Under **Server Type**, select **WebSphere application servers** and select your server.
2. Select **Java and Process Management > Process Definition**.
3. In the **Additional Properties** section, click **Java Virtual Machine**.
4. In the **Generic JVM arguments** text field, enter:

```text
-javaagent:/path/to/dd-java-agent.jar
```

For additional details and options, see the [WebSphere docs][1].

[1]: https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/setting-generic-jvm-arguments-websphere-application-server
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

**Note**

> - If you're adding the `-javaagent` argument to your `java -jar` command, it needs to be added _before_ the `-jar` argument, that is as a JVM option, not as an application argument. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you're adding the `-javaagent` argument to your `java -jar` command, it needs to be added _before_ the `-jar` argument, as a JVM option, not as an application argument. For example:
```

   ```text
   java -javaagent:/path/to/dd-java-agent.jar -jar my_app.jar
   ```

     For more information, see the [Oracle documentation][8].

- Never add `dd-java-agent` to your classpath. It can cause unexpected behavior.

## Automatic instrumentation

Automatic instrumentation for Java uses the `java-agent` instrumentation capabilities [provided by the JVM][9]. When a `java-agent` is registered, it has the ability to modify class files at load time.

> Instrumentation may come from auto-instrumentation, the OpenTracing api, or a mixture of both. Instrumentation generally captures the following info:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instrumentation may come from auto-instrumentation, the OpenTracing API, or a mixture of both. Instrumentation generally captures the following info:
```

> - Timing duration is captured using the JVM's nanotime clock unless a timestamp is provided from the OpenTracing API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Timing duration is captured using the JVM's NanoTime clock unless a timestamp is provided from the OpenTracing API
```

- Key/value tag pairs

> - Errors and stacktraces which are unhandled by the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Errors and stack traces which are unhandled by the application
```

- A total count of traces (requests) flowing through the system

## Configuration

If needed, configure the tracing library to send application performance telemetry data as you require, including setting up Unified Service Tagging. Read [Library Configuration][10] for details.

## Trace reporting

To report a trace to Datadog the following happens:

- Trace completes
- Trace is pushed to an asynchronous queue of traces
    - Queue is size-bound and doesn't grow past a set limit of 7000 traces
    - Once the size limit is reached, traces are discarded
    - A count of the total traces is captured to ensure accurate throughput

> - In a separate reporting thread, the trace queue is flushed and traces are encoded via msgpack then sent to the Datadog Agent via http

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In a separate reporting thread, the trace queue is flushed, traces are encoded with MessagePack, and then sent to the Datadog Agent using http
```

- Queue flushing happens on a schedule of once per second

To see the actual code, documentation, and usage examples for any of the libraries and frameworks that Datadog supports, check the full list of auto-instrumented components for Java applications in the [Integrations](#integrations) section.

### Trace annotation

Add the `dd-trace-api` dependency to your project. For Maven, add this to `pom.xml`:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.datadoghq</groupId>
    <artifactId>dd-trace-api</artifactId>
    <version>{version}</version>
</dependency>
```

For Gradle, add:

```gradle
implementation group: 'com.datadoghq', name: 'dd-trace-api', version: {version}
```

> Now add `@Trace` to methods to have them be traced when running with `dd-java-agent.jar`. If the Agent is not attached, this annotation has no effect on your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now add `@Trace` to methods to have them be traced when running with `dd-java-agent.jar`. If the Agent is not attached, this annotation does not effect on your application.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Now add `@Trace` to methods to have them be traced when running with `dd-java-agent.jar`. If the Agent is not attached, this annotation does not affect your application.
```

> `@Trace` annotations have the default operation name `trace.annotation`, while the method traced have the resource by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@Trace` annotations have the default operation name `trace.annotation`, while the method traced has the resource by default.
```
